## JSX

JSX is a syntax extension to JavaScript. We recommend using it with React to describe what the UI should look like. JSX may remind you of a template language, but it comes with the full power of JavaScript.

## Why JSX?

React embraces the fact that rendering logic is inherently coupled with other UI logic: how events are handled, how the state changes over time, and how the data is prepared for display.

Instead of artificially separating technologies by putting markup and logic in separate files, React separates concerns with loosely coupled units called “components” that contain both. We will come back to components in a further section, but if you’re not yet comfortable putting markup in JS, this talk might convince you otherwise.

React doesn’t require using JSX, but most people find it helpful as a visual aid when working with UI inside the JavaScript code. It also allows React to show more useful error and warning messages.

### JSX is an Expression Too

After compilation, JSX expressions become regular JavaScript function calls and evaluate to JavaScript objects.

This means that you can use JSX inside of if statements and for loops, assign it to variables, accept it as arguments, and return it from functions.

## React 1

React is a JavaScript library, and so we’ll assume you have a basic understanding of the JavaScript language. If you don’t feel very confident, we recommend going through a JavaScript tutorial to check your knowledge level and enable you to follow along this guide without getting lost.

### Components and Props

Components let you split the UI into independent, reusable pieces, and think about each piece in isolation.

Function and Class Components
The simplest way to define a component is to write a JavaScript function:

`function Welcome(props) { return <h1>Hello, {props.name}</h1>; }`

This function is a valid React component because it accepts a single “props” (which stands for properties) object argument with data and returns a React element. We call such components “function components” because they are literally JavaScript functions.

## State and Lifecycle

In applications with many components, it’s very important to free up resources taken by the components when they are destroyed.
There are three things you should know about setState() which are:

    - Do Not Modify State Directly
    - State Updates May Be Asynchronous
    - State Updates are Merged

### Handling Events

Handling events with React elements is very similar to handling events on DOM elements. There are some syntax differences: - React events are named using camelCase, rather than lowercase. - With JSX you pass a function as the event handler, rather than a string.



## Tailwind CSS 
#### important benefits:

- You aren’t wasting energy inventing class names. No more adding silly class names like sidebar-inner-wrapper just to be able to style something, and no more agonizing over the perfect abstract name for something that’s really just a flex container.

- Your CSS stops growing. Using a traditional approach, your CSS files get bigger every time you add a new feature. With utilities, everything is reusable so you rarely need to write new CSS.

- Making changes feels safer. CSS is global and you never know what you’re breaking when you make a change. Classes in your HTML are local, so you can change them without worrying about something else breaking.

### But using utility classes has a few important advantages over inline styles:
- Designing with constraints. Using inline styles, every value is a magic number. With utilities, you’re choosing styles from a predefined design system, which makes it much easier to build visually consistent UIs.

- Responsive design. You can’t use media queries in inline styles, but you can use Tailwind’s responsive utilities to build fully responsive interfaces easily.
- Hover, focus, and other states. Inline styles can’t target states like hover or focus, but Tailwind’s state variants make it easy to style those states with utility classes.

## Next.js: The React Framework
- Code has to be bundled using a bundler like webpack and transformed using a compiler like Babel.
 - You need to do production optimizations such as code splitting. You might want to statically pre-render some pages for performance and SEO. You might also want to use server-side rendering or client-side rendering.

- You might have to write some server-side code to connect your React app to your data store.

- An intuitive page-based routing system (with support for dynamic routes)

- Pre-rendering, both static generation (SSG) and server-side

- rendering (SSR) are supported on a per-page basis

- Automatic code splitting for faster page loads

- Client-side routing with optimized prefetching
- Built-in CSS and Sass support, and support for any CSS-in-JS library
- Development environment with Fast Refresh support
- API routes to build API endpoints with Serverless Functions Fully extendable