## JSON Web Tokens

How do JSON Web Tokens work? In authentication, when the user successfully logs in using their credentials, a JSON Web Token will be returned. Since tokens are credentials, great care must be taken to prevent security issues. In general, you should not keep tokens longer than required.

- Whenever the user wants to access a protected route or resource, the user agent should send the JWT, typically in the Authorization header using the Bearer schema.

- In its compact form, JSON Web Tokens consist of three parts separated by dots (.), which are:

Header
Payload
Signature

### Header

The header typically consists of two parts: the type of the token, which is JWT, and the signing algorithm being used, such as HMAC SHA256 or RSA.

### Payload

The second part of the token is the payload, which contains the claims. Claims are statements about an entity (typically, the user) and additional data. There are three types of claims: registered, public, and private claims.

Registered claims: These are a set of predefined claims which are not mandatory but recommended, to provide a set of useful, interoperable claims. Some of them are: iss (issuer), exp (expiration time), sub (subject), aud (audience), and others.
Notice that the claim names are only three characters long as JWT is meant to be compact.

Public claims: These can be defined at will by those using JWTs. But to avoid collisions they should be defined in the IANA JSON Web Token Registry or be defined as a URI that contains a collision resistant namespace.

Private claims: These are the custom claims created to share information between parties that agree on using them and are neither registered or public claims.

The payload is then Base64Url encoded to form the second part of the JSON Web Token.

### Signature

The signature is issued by the JWT backend, using the header base64 + payload base64 + SECRET_KEY. Upon each request this signature is verified. If any information in the header or in the payload was changed by the client it will invalidate the signature. The only way of checking and validating the signature is by using your application’s SECRET_KEY. To create the signature part you have to take the encoded header, the encoded payload, a secret, the algorithm specified in the header, and sign that.

## How to Use JWT Authentication with Django REST Framework

JWT stand for JSON Web Token and it is an authentication strategy used by client/server applications where the client is a Web application using JavaScript and some frontend framework like Angular, React or VueJS.

In this tutorial we are going to explore the specifics of JWT authentication. If you want to learn more about Token-based authentication using Django REST Framework (DRF), or if you want to know how to start a new DRF project you can read this tutorial: How to Implement Token Authentication using Django REST Framework. The concepts are the same, we are just going to switch the authentication backend.

The JWT is acquired by exchanging an username + password for an access token and an refresh token.

The access token is usually short-lived (expires in 5 min or so, can be customized though).

The refresh token lives a little bit longer (expires in 24 hours, also customizable). It is comparable to an authentication session. After it expires, you need a full login with username + password again.