- A built-in User model for authentication
## Setup steps:
AbstractUser vs AbstractBaseUser:
Two modern ways to create a custom user model in Django: 
1-AbstractUser 
2-AbstractBaseUser.
In both you can subclass them to extend existing functionality however AbstractBaseUser requires much, much more work. 

# Custom User Model: 
- What is Django user model?  
What is Django user model?
For Django's default user model, the user identifier is the username, for custom user models it is the field specified by USERNAME_FIELD (see Customizing Users and authentication). It also handles the default permissions model as defined for User and PermissionsMixin .

Creating our initial custom user model requires four steps:

Update config/settings.py
Create a new CustomUser model
Create new UserCreation and UserChangeForm
Update the admin


In settings.py we'll add the accounts app and use the AUTH_USER_MODEL config to tell Django to use our new custom user model in place of the built-in User model. We'll call our custom user model CustomUser.

Within INSTALLED_APPS add accounts at the bottom. Then at the bottom of the entire file, add the AUTH_USER_MODEL config.

        INSTALLED_APPS = [
    'django.contrib.admin',
    'django.contrib.auth',
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    'django.contrib.sessions',
    'django.contrib.messages',
    'django.contrib.staticfiles',
    'accounts', # new   
        ]

Now update accounts/models.py with a new User model which we'll call CustomUser.

        AUTH_USER_MODEL = 'accounts.CustomUser' # new


        # accounts/models.py
        from django.contrib.auth.models import AbstractUser
        from django.db import models

        class CustomUser(AbstractUser):
        pass
        # add additional fields in here

        def __str__(self):
                return self.username

