# Reading11

## Jupyter Lab

- JupyterLab is a next-generation web-based user interface for Project Jupyter.
- JupyterLab enables you to work with documents and activities such as Jupyter notebooks, text editors, terminals, and custom components in a flexible, integrated, and extensible manner.

- You can arrange multiple documents and activities side by side in the work area using tabs and splitters. Documents and activities integrate with each other, enabling new workflows for interactive computing, for example:

  - Code Consoles provide transient scratchpads for running code interactively, with full support for rich output. A code console can be linked to a notebook kernel as a computation log from the notebook, for example.

  - Kernel-backed documents enable code in any text file (Markdown, Python, R, LaTeX, etc.) to be run interactively in any Jupyter kernel.

  - Notebook cell outputs can be mirrored into their own tab, side by side with the notebook, enabling simple dashboards with interactive controls backed by a kernel.

  - Multiple views of documents with different editors or viewers enable live editing of documents reflected in other viewers. For example, it is easy to have live preview of Markdown, Delimiter-separated Values, or Vega/Vega-Lite documents.

- upyterLab will eventually replace the classic Jupyter Notebook. Throughout this transition, the same notebook document format will be supported by both the classic Notebook and JupyterLab.

## NumPy

- is a commonly used Python data analysis package. By using NumPy, you can speed up your workflow, and interface with other packages in the Python ecosystem, like scikit-learn, that use NumPy under the hood. NumPy was originally developed in the mid 2000s, and arose from an even older package called Numeric. This longevity means that almost every data analysis or machine learning package for Python leverages NumPy in some way.

### Data Analysis with Python

- The CSV (Comma Separated Values) format is the most common import and export format for spreadsheets and databases. We can read in this file format using csv.read object which will allow us to read in and split up all the content from ssv file.

- NumPy has several different data types, the important ones are :
  - float — numeric floating point data.
  - int — integer data.
  - string — character data.
  - object — Python objects
  - NumPy makes it simple to perform mathematical operations on arrays. This is one of the primary advantages of NumPy, and makes it quite easy to do computations.
  - NumPy makes it possible to test to see if rows match certain values using mathematical comparison operations like <, - >, >=, <=, and ==
  - With NumPy, it’s very common to combine multiple arrays into a single unified array