# Dunder Methods and probability

### Dunder Methods 
In Python, special methods are a set of predefined methods you can use to enrich your classes. They are easy to recognize because they start and end with double underscores, for example `__init__` or `__str__`. 

- These “dunders” or “special methods” in Python are also sometimes called “magic methods.” But using this terminology can make them seem more complicated than they really are—at the end of the day there’s nothing “magical” about them.

- Dunder methods let you emulate the behavior of built-in types. For example, to get the length of a string you can call len('string'). But an empty class definition doesn’t support this behavior out of the box:

```
class NoLenSupport:
    pass

>>> obj = NoLenSupport()
>>> len(obj)
TypeError: "object of type 'NoLenSupport' has no len()"
```

To fix this, you can add a __len__ dunder method to your class:
```

class LenSupport:
    def __len__(self):
        return 42

>>> obj = LenSupport()
>>> len(obj)
42
```



### What is probability?

- At the most basic level, probability seeks to answer the question, “What is the chance of an event to be happened?” An event is some outcome of interest. To calculate the chance of an event happening, we also need to consider all the other events that can occur.

### From statistics to probability

- Our data will be generated by flipping a coin 10 times and counting how many times we get heads. We will call a set of 10 coin tosses a trial. Our data point will be the number of heads we observe. We may not get the “ideal” 5 heads, but we won’t worry too much since one trial is only one data point. If we perform many, many trials, we expect the average number of heads over all of our trials to approach the 50%. The code below simulates 10, 100, 1000, and 1000000 trials, and then calculates the average proportion of heads observed. Our process is summarized in the image below as well.

### Revisiting the normal

- Central limit theorem, which indicates that for larger the assumption count, the more normal the probability becomes.
- Three Sigma Rule, it is an expression of how many of our observations fall within a certain distance of the mean.
- Z-score, is a simple calculation that answers the question, “Given a data point, how many standard deviations is it away from the mean?”.