# Linked Lists
### What is a Linked List?

* **A Linked List** is a sequence of **Nodes** that are connected/linked to each other. The most defining feature of a Linked List is that each Node references the next Node in the link. 

* There are two types of Linked List - **Singly** and **Doubly**:
- **Singly:** Singly refers to the number of references the node has. A Singly linked list means that there is only one reference, and the reference points to the Next node in a linked list.

- **Doubly:** Doubly refers to there being two (double) references within the node. A Doubly linked list means that there is a reference to both the Next and Previous node.
### Big O notation
- **What is Big O notation and why is it useful?**
Big-O notation is the language we use for talking about how long an algorithm takes to run (time complexity) or how much memory is used by an algorithm (space complexity). Big-O notation can express the best, worst, and average-case running time of an algorithm.

- **Why is Big O notation important?**
Big O notation allows you to analyze algorithms in terms of overall efficiency and scaleability. It abstracts away constant order differences in efficiency which can vary from platform, language, OS to focus on the inherent efficiency of the algorithm and how it varies according to the size of the input.

### Linear data structures:
 If we really want to understand the basics of linked lists, it’s important that we talk about what type of data structure they are.
 One characteristic of linked lists is that they are linear data structures, which means that there is a sequence and an order to how they are constructed and traversed.
 Linear structures, however, are the opposite of non-linear structures. In non-linear data structures, items don’t have to be arranged in order, which means that we could traverse the data structure non-sequentially.