## Conditional Rendering
In React, you can create distinct components that encapsulate behavior you need. Then, you can render only some of them, depending on the state of your application.

Conditional rendering in React works the same way conditions work in JavaScript. Use JavaScript operators like if or the conditional operator to create elements representing the current state, and let React update the UI to match them.


## Lists and Keys: 
use the map() function to take an array of numbers and double their values. We assign the new array returned by map() to the variable doubled and log it

## Rendering Multiple Components
You can build collections of elements and include them in JSX using curly braces {}.

## Forms

HTML form elements work a little bit differently from other DOM elements in React, because form elements naturally keep some internal state. For example, this form in plain HTML accepts a single name.

## Lifting State Up

Often, several components need to reflect the same changing data. We recommend lifting the shared state up to their closest common ancestor. Let’s see how this works in action.

In this section, we will create a temperature calculator that calculates whether the water would boil at a given temperature.

## Composition vs Inheritance

React has a powerful composition model, and we recommend using composition instead of inheritance to reuse code between components.

## Thinking in React

React is, in our opinion, the premier way to build big, fast Web apps with JavaScript. It has scaled very well for us at Facebook and Instagram.

One of the many great parts of React is how it makes you think about apps as you build them. In this document, we’ll walk you through the thought process of building a searchable product data table using React.